WIP-0009: move to Proposed (#42)
witnet/WIPs: wip-0009.md

2. Block candidates from active identities are prioritized over those from non-active identities.
3. If there are still multiple candidates, the one with the lowest VRF value is chosen.

> With the previous changes, the newcomer mining probability is bounded as initially designed in [RandPoe] while the fair distribution among those identities that have proven some contribution to the network's service and security still applies. Just as an illustrative example with the aforementioned network conditions, the newcomer mining probability would be almost 5%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the previous changes, the newcomer mining probability is bounded as initially designed in [RandPoe] while the fair distribution among those identities that have proven some contribution to the network's service and security still applies. As an illustrative example using the same network conditions as before, with the new validation rules in place the newcomer mining probability would go down to almost 5%.
```

Reviewer: "The previous changes" still sounds confusing to me. It's not obvious whether it's referring to the changes contained in the proposal, the referred changes that took place before these and caused the current situation, or any other former changes.

## Backwards compatibility

### Consensus

This proposal introduces a significant change in the block candidate selection algorithm. Therefore there is enough evidence to assert that it is not backward compatible from the consensus perspective and that no cooperative chain construction would be possible among two nodes from which one adopted these changes while the other did not.

As it is considered best practice in such situations, an *Adoption Plan* is hereby proposed.

### Examples and Documentation

The algorithm affected by this proposal is internal to the block chain protocol, and it does not trigger any update on existing examples or documentation.

### Libraries and Clients

The algorithm affected by this proposal is internal to the block chain protocol, and it does not require any update on existing libraries or clients.

## Reference Implementation

The business logic described in the specification has been implemented in [witnet-rust] by [pull request #1829][witnet/witnet-rust#1829].

## Adoption Plan

> The changes proposed herein have been already implemented in [witnet-rust] and the activation of the new consensus rule is scheduled as a community-coordinated hard fork to take place on March 16 2021 at 9 am UTC, as proposed by [pull request #1829][witnet/witnet-rust#1829] and [widely announced to the community][announcement] in a timely manner.

Reviewer: `announcement` link does not exist.

Author: Ups sorry, I forgot to include the medium post link

### Examples and Documentation

The algorithm affected by this proposal is internal to the block chain protocol, and it does not trigger any update on existing examples or documentation.

### Libraries and Clients

The algorithm affected by this proposal is internal to the block chain protocol, and it does not require any update on existing libraries or clients.

## Reference Implementation

The business logic described in the specification has been implemented in [witnet-rust] by [pull request #1829][witnet/witnet-rust#1829].

## Adoption Plan

The changes proposed herein have been already implemented in [witnet-rust] and the activation of the new consensus rule is scheduled as a community-coordinated hard fork to take place on March 16 2021 at 9 am UTC, as proposed by [pull request #1829][witnet/witnet-rust#1829] and [widely announced to the community][announcement] in a timely manner.

## Acknowledgments

This proposal has been cooperatively discussed and devised by many individuals from the Witnet development community [witnet/witnet-rust#1827].

Special thanks to [Luis Rubio][lrubiorod] for the reference implementation in Rust.

> [announcement]: https://medium.com/@aesedepece/359ff11dfdbe

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this link will work once the article is published, as it will be moved from my namespace to the foundation's.

I think we can go with this:
```suggestion
[announcement]: https://medium.com/witnet/359ff11dfdbe
```
